Docs update: React Native (#8627)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/docs/libraries/react-native/index.mdx

Reviewer: Should we include an example of how to call `alias()`?

Author: Hmm we could I suppose. We'd need to do it for all SDKs though

  groupAnalytics: true
---

> Purely built for React Native, this library allows you to integrate PostHog with your React Native project. For React Native projects built with Expo, there are no mobile native dependencies outside of supported Expo packages.

Reviewer 2: It's ok if we simplify this sentence but I'd not remove it altogether since it says that it's Expo compatible and there are no native deps which is important for some people.

import ReactNativeInstall from '../../integrate/_snippets/install-react-native.mdx'

<ReactNativeInstall />

### Configuration options

You can further customize how PostHog works through its configuration on initialization.

| Attribute                                                                                                                                                                             | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | `host`<br/><br/>**Type:** String<br/>**Default:** `'https://us.i.posthog.com'`                                                                                                         | PostHog API host (usually 'https://us.i.posthog.com' by default or 'https://eu.i.posthog.com'). Host is optional if you use 'https://us.i.posthog.com'.                                                                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `host`<br/><br/>**Type:** String<br/>**Default:** `https://us.i.posthog.com`                                                                                                         | PostHog API host (usually `https://us.i.posthog.com` by default or `https://eu.i.posthog.com`). Host is optional if you use `https://us.i.posthog.com`.                                                                                                                                                     |
```

| `flushAt`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `20`                                                                                                                              | The number of events to queue before sending to PostHog (flushing).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `flushInterval`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `10000`                                                                                                                     | The interval in milliseconds between periodic flushes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | `maxBatchSize`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `100`                                                                                                                        | The maximum number of queued messages to be flushed as part of a single batch (must be higher than 'flushAt').                                                                                                                                                                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `maxBatchSize`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `100`                                                                                                                        | The maximum number of queued messages to be flushed as part of a single batch (must be higher than `flushAt`).                                                                                                                                                                                            |
```

> | `maxQueueSize`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `1000`                                                                                                                       | The maximum number of cached messages either in memory or on the local storage (must be higher than 'flushAt').                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `maxQueueSize`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `1000`                                                                                                                       | The maximum number of cached messages either in memory or on the local storage (must be higher than `flushAt`).                                                                                                                                                                                           |
```

| `disabled`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `false`                                                                                                                         | If set to true, the SDK is essentially disabled (useful for local environments where you don't want to track anything).                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | `defaultOptIn`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `true`                                                                                                                      | If set to false, the SDK will not track until the 'optIn' function is called.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `defaultOptIn`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `true`                                                                                                                      | If set to false, the SDK will not track until the `optIn()` function is called.                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
```

> | `sendFeatureFlagEvent`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `true`                                                                                                              | Whether to track that 'getFeatureFlag' was called (used by Experiments).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sendFeatureFlagEvent`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `true`                                                                                                              | Whether to track that `getFeatureFlag` was called (used by experiments).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
```

| `preloadFeatureFlags`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `true`                                                                                                               | Whether to load feature flags when initialized or not.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | `bootstrap`<br/><br/>**Type:** Object<br/>**Default:** `{}`                                                                                                                            | An object containing the `distinctId`, `isIdentifiedId`, `featureFlags`, and `featureFlagPayloads` keys. `distinctId` is a string, and `featureFlags` and `featureFlagPayloads` are objects of key-value pairs.                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `bootstrap`<br/><br/>**Type:** Object<br/>**Default:** `{}`                                                                                                                            | An object containing the `distinctId`, `isIdentifiedId`, `featureFlags`, and `featureFlagPayloads` keys. `distinctId` is a string, and `featureFlags` and `featureFlagPayloads` are objects of key-value pairs. Used to ensure data is available as soon as the SDK loads.                                                                                          |
```

| `requestTimeout`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `10000`                                                                                                                    | Timeout in milliseconds for any calls.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `featureFlagsRequestTimeoutMs`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `10000`                                                                                                      | Timeout in milliseconds for feature flag calls.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

> | `sessionExpirationTimeSeconds`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `1800`                                                                                                       | For Session Analysis, how long before a session expires (defaults to 30 minutes).                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `sessionExpirationTimeSeconds`<br/><br/>**Type:** Number<br/>**Default:** `1800`                                                                                                       | For session analysis, how long before a session expires (defaults to 30 minutes).                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
```

> | `captureMode`<br/><br/>**Type:** String<br/>**Default:** `'form'`                                                                                                                       | Whether to post events to PostHog in JSON or compressed format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `captureMode`<br/><br/>**Type:** String<br/>**Default:** `form`                                                                                                                       | Whether to post events to PostHog in JSON or compressed format.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
```

> | `persistence`<br/><br/>**Type:** String<br/>**Default:** `'file'`                                                                                                                      | Allows you to provide the storage type. 'file' will try to load the best available storage, the provided 'customStorage', 'customAsyncStorage' or in-memory storage.                                                                                                                                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `persistence`<br/><br/>**Type:** String<br/>**Default:** `file`                                                                                                                      | Allows you to provide the storage type. `file` will try to load the best available storage, the provided `customStorage`, `customAsyncStorage`, or in-memory storage.                                                                                                                                        |
```

| `customAppProperties`<br/><br/>**Type:** Object or Function<br/>**Default:** `null`                                                                                                    | Allows you to provide your own implementation of the common information about your App or a function to modify the default App properties generated.                                                                                                                                                       |

> | `customStorage`<br/><br/>**Type:** Object<br/>**Default:** `null`                                                                                                                      | Allows you to provide a custom asynchronous storage such as async-storage, expo-file-system, or a synchronous storage such as mmkv. If not provided, PostHog will attempt to use the best available storage via optional peer dependencies. If 'persistence' is set to 'memory', this option will be ignored. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `customStorage`<br/><br/>**Type:** Object<br/>**Default:** `null`                                                                                                                      | Allows you to provide a custom asynchronous storage such as `async-storage`, `expo-file-system`, or a synchronous storage such as `mmkv`. If not provided, PostHog will attempt to use the best available storage via optional peer dependencies. If `persistence` is set to `memory`, this option is ignored. |
```

> | `captureNativeAppLifecycleEvents`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `false`                                                                                                  | Captures native app lifecycle events such as Application Installed, Application Updated, Application Opened, Application Became Active, and Application Backgrounded. By default, this is false. If you're already using the 'captureLifecycleEvents' options with 'initReactNativeNavigation' or 'PostHogProvider', you should not set this to true, otherwise you may see duplicated events.                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `captureNativeAppLifecycleEvents`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `false`                                                                                                  | Captures native app lifecycle events such as Application Installed, Application Updated, Application Opened, Application Became Active, and Application Backgrounded. By default, this is false. If you're already using the `captureLifecycleEvents` options with `initReactNativeNavigation` or `PostHogProvider'` you should keep this as false, otherwise you may see duplicated events.                   |
```

| `disableGeoip`<br/><br/>**Type:** Boolean<br/>**Default:** `false`                                                                                                                     | When true, disables automatic GeoIP resolution for events and feature flags.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
## Capturing events

import RNSendEvents from '../../integrate/send-events/_snippets/send-events-react-native.mdx'

<RNSendEvents />

## Autocapture 

> PostHog autocapture automatically tracks the following events for you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog autocapture can automatically track the following events for you:
```

-   **Application Became Active** - when the app comes to the foreground (e.g. from the app switcher)
-   **Application Backgrounded** - when the app is sent to the background by the user
-   **Application Installed** - when the app is installed.
-   **Application Updated** - when the app is updated.
-   **$screen** - when the user navigates (if using `@react-navigation/native` or `react-native-navigation`)
-   **$autocapture** - touch events when the user interacts with the screen

With autocapture, all touch events for children of `PosthogProvider` are tracked, capturing a snapshot of the view hierarchy at that point. This enables you to create [insights](/docs/product-analytics/insights) in PostHog without having to add custom events.

PostHog will try to generate a sensible name for the touched element based on the React component `displayName` or `name`. If you prefer, you can set your own name using the `ph-label` prop:

```react-native
<View ph-label="my-special-label"></View>
```

### Autocapture configuration

You can tweak how autocapture works by passing custom options.

```react-native
<PostHogProvider apiKey="<ph_project_api_key>" autocapture={{

>     captureTouches: true, // If you don't want to capture touch events set this to false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    captureTouches: true, // If you don't want to capture touch events, set this to false
```

>     captureLifecycleEvents: true, // If you don't want to capture the Lifecycle Events (e.g. Application Opened) set this to false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    captureLifecycleEvents: true, // If you don't want to capture the lifecycle events (e.g. Application Opened), set this to false
```

>     captureScreens: true, // If you don't want to capture screen events set this to false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    captureScreens: true, // If you don't want to capture screen events, set this to false
```

>     captureScreens: true, // If you don't want to capture screen events set this to false

Reviewer: Do we need the comments for each of these, slightly redundant with the names.

Reviewer: The main part is beyond a scroll too

![CleanShot 2024-06-06 at 08 30 28](https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/34755028/76491749-3431-4ddf-95ea-c753b8223e79)

    ignoreLabels: [], // Any labels here will be ignored from the stack in touch events
    customLabelProp: "ph-label",
    noCaptureProp: "ph-no-capture",
    propsToCapture = ["testID"], // Limit which props are captured. By default, identifiers and text content are captured.

    navigation: {

>         // By default only the Screen name is tracked but it is possible to track the
>         // params or modify the name by intercepting theautocapture like so

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // By default, only the screen name is tracked but it is possible to track the
        // params or modify the name by intercepting the autocapture like so
```

## Setting user properties

User properties enable you to capture, manage, and analyze specific data about a user. You can use them to create [filters](/docs/product-analytics/trends#filtering-events-based-on-properties) or [cohorts](/docs/data/cohorts), which can then be used in [insights](/docs/product-analytics/insights), [feature flags](/docs/feature-flags), and more.

To set a user's properties, include the `$set` or `$set_once` property when capturing any event:

### $set

```js
posthog.capture('some_event', { $set: { userProperty: 'value' } })
```

### $set_once

> `$set_once` works just like `$set`, except that it will **only set the property if the user doesn't already have that property set**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$set_once` works just like `$set`, except it **only sets the property if the user doesn't already have that property set**.
```

```js
posthog.capture('some_event', { $set_once: { userProperty: 'value' } })
```

> ## Super Properties
> 
> Super Properties are properties associated with events that are set once and then sent with every `capture` call, be it a $screen, an autocaptured touch, or anything else.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Super properties

Super properties are properties associated with events that are set once and then sent with every `capture` call, be it a $screen, an autocaptured touch, or anything else.
```

The call above ensures that every event sent by the user will include `"icecream pref": "vanilla"` and `"team_id": 22`. This way, if you filtered events by property using `icecream_pref = vanilla`, it would display all events captured on that user after the `posthog.register` call, since they all include the specified Super Property.

> Note that this does **not** set the user's properties. This only sets the properties for their events. To store user properties, see the [setting user properties section](#setting-user-properties).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This does **not** set the user's properties. This only sets the properties for their events. To store user properties, see the [setting user properties section](#setting-user-properties).
```

> ### Removing stored Super Properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removing stored super properties
```

> This will remove the Super Property and subsequent events will not include it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will remove the super property and subsequent events will not include it.
```

> If you are doing this as part of a user logging out you can instead simply [`posthog.reset()`](#reset-after-logout) which takes care of clearing all stored Super Properties and more.

Reviewer 2: if you use the [] to be a link, you don't need the ``

Author: I prefer to leave the ``, since this refers to a specific function in the code

Reviewer 2: the problem is that if you use the ``, it's not highlighted as a link anymore, so it's a "hidden link", but no strong preferences here.

Author: It's still highlighted :) But not if you do it the other way round:

works: [`posthog.reset()`]
doesnt work: `[posthog.reset()]`

<img width="259" alt="Screenshot 2024-06-06 at 12 44 02 PM" src="https://github.com/PostHog/posthog.com/assets/7090054/364e5da0-ca04-453e-bd34-e277dcffe89a">
